RESEARCH – TASK 1
Types of programming languages 
•	Low level, High level
•	Interpreted, Compiled
•	Programming, Scripted
•	Open source, not open source
•	Support OOP, not supporting OOP


1)	Low-level vs High-level
  a)	Low-level
    a.	Easy to understand for machines, but less human readable.
    b.	Not Portable
    (Meaning: Tied to specific CPU hardware so for example:
      i.	Assembly for intel works only on intel processors
      ii.	Assembly for AMD works only on AMD processors) 
    c.	Higher execution speed
    d.	Uses binary code
    e.	EX: Assembly Language
  b)	High-level
    a.	Human readable and easier to understand and use
    b.	Portable
    (Meaning: Languages like python, Java are portable because:
      i.	 they don’t talk directly to hardware.
      ii.  They depend on compilers/Interpreters (MENTIONED DOWN)
           to translate for different machines
      iii. so one python or Java files can run on many types of computers
    c.	Lower execution speed
    d.	Uses syntax and semantics
    e.	Examples: python, c++, Java

2)	Interpreted vs compiler 
  a)	 Interpreted
    a.	Run through a program line by line and execute each command
    b.	Interpreted languages tend to be more flexible and often offer features like dynamic typing and smaller program size
  b)	Compiled
    a.	Compiled languages are converted directly into machine code that the processor can execute
    b.	They tend to be faster and more efficient to execute than interpreted languages

3)	Scripting vs Programming
  a)	Scripting
    a.	Compiled languages are converted directly into machine code that the processor can execute
    b.	They tend to be faster and more efficient to execute than interpreted languages
  b)	Programming
    a.	Programming languages are the foundation of software development, allowing developers to create:
      i.	 Websites
      ii.	 Applications
      iii. Systems
          through computer understandable instructions.

4)	Open-Source vs Closed-Source Software
  a)	Open Source
    a.	computer software whose source is open means the general public can access and use it. The source code of open-source software is public. It uses the code freely available on the Internet
      i.	EX: Firefox, OpenOffice, Gimp, Alfresco, PHP
  b)	Closed Source
    a.	Closed source software refers to computer software whose source code is closed means the public is not given access to the source code.
      i.	EX: Microsoft Windows, WinRAR, mac OS, Adobe Flash Player.

5)	Support OOP vs Not Supporting OOP
    First OOP is a programming paradigm based on the concept of objects, which contain: Attributes (data) Methods (functions) It makes code: More organized Reusable Easier to maintain
  a)	Languages That Support OOP
    a.	Python
    b.	Java
  b)	Languages That Do NOT Support OOP
    a.	C
    b.	Assembly
